Content


Elevator pitch:
	I propose an informative site focused on the protection of wild elephants. This site will be primarily targeted toward youth who want to learn more about elephant poaching and what can be done to protect elephants.


Purpose:
	This website will help bring awareness to elephant poaching. This will hopefully increase the number of people wanting to help protect wild elephants.


Audience:
	Our target audience is primarily individuals aged between 8 and 14 who want to learn more about elephant poaching and what can be done to protect wild elephants. These individuals are sympathetic toward the suffering of others and are accustomed to using laptops and mobile devices to learn about issues around the world.


Three topics:
	1. Poaching
	2. Habitat
	3. Helping


Write 600+ words about the site, not words on the site?

	1. Poaching
		Reality of Poaching
			Every fifteen minutes, an elephant is killed for its tusks. This amounts to tens of thousands of dead elephants every year. In a world with less than 500,000 elephants still alive, this is a tragic and alarming fact.

		History of Poaching
			Elephants have been killed for their ivory tusks for thousands of years, but never threatened elephants with extinction until far more recently due to both increased demand and an increased ability to transport ivory. It is estimated that there were over 10 million elephants alive in 1900, 1.3 million in 1980, and only 600,000 by 1990.

		Ban and Resurgence of Poaching
			The international ivory trade was finally banned in 1990, which successfully provided some respite to the remaining elephant herds. Unfortunately, a resurgence in poaching has emerged that continues to threaten the few remaining elephants today.

		Habitat Loss
			Sadly, poaching is not the only threat to elephants. Habitat loss forces elephants into smaller areas that don't have enough food for them. Visit our page on habitat loss to learn more.

		Helping
			Luckily, there are things you can do to help ensure our world is always one with elephants. Visit our "How you can help" page to learn more.


	2. Habitat
		Food and Habitat Shortages
			Elephants can eat hundreds of pounds of plants every day, meaning they need large areas to support themselves. Human infrastructure like fences and roads are shrinking elephant habitats and interrupting their migration patterns, leading to shortages of the food available to elephants.

		Elephant Health
			When elephants are unable to eat enough food their birthrate decreases, meaning the population is unable to keep up with illegal poaching. Additionally, healthy genetic diversity suffers as elephant ranges become fragmented and different groups are forced away from each other.

		Conflict Over Crops
			As elephants become hungrier in their smaller habitats they may be enticed to eat the crops of nearby farmers. When this occurs, it can cause conflict between humans and elephants that sometimes lead to the tragic deaths of both humans and elephants alike.

		Biodiversity
			In addition to the land helping elephants, elephants help the land. As elephant herds travel they improve the biodiversity of their habitat by making paths for other animals, removing brush, creating clearings, and spreading seeds. Some plants depend heavily on the help of elephants.

		Helping
			Luckily, there are things you can do to help ensure our world is always one with elephants. Visit our "How you can help" page to learn more.


	3. How You Can Help
		You Can Help
			Elephants are incredible animals that are irreplaceable. If you want to help make sure we always live in a world with elephants, there are a few things you can do.

		Avoid ivory
			Elephants are poached for their tusks. These tusks are made into ivory carvings, jewelry, ornaments, and other items. If people stop buying things made of ivory then poachers won't be able to make money off of killing elephants and will stop.

		Speaking Up
			Other people won't take steps to protect elephants unless they know how much trouble elephants are in. Speaking up about stopping elephant poachers and habitat loss helps inspire others to make changes and offer their support. Widespread support can even cause companies and governments to help.

		Donating
			There are many organizations dedicated to helping elephants by stopping poachers, protecting habitats, and taking care of vulnerable elephants. If you can, consider donating to one of these organizations. We are impressed by Save the Elephants, who work on a range of projects designed to help elephants. You can donate to Save the Elephants at savetheelephants.org.
